Feat: Workspaces (#198)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_gateway_entities/workspace.md

* If the Service or Route created is totally unique and does not match an existing entity, the new entity is created. 
* If an existing Service or Route object that matches the one being created is found, a `409 Conflict` error is returned. 
* If an equivalent Service or a Route is found in a different Workspace, the new entity is created.
* If an equivalent Service or Route is found in a different Workspace, and the host is a wildcard: 
  * If the host field matches in both workspaces, a `409 Conflict` error is returned.
  * If the host field does not match, the new entity can be created.
  * If the host is an absolute value: Issue a `409 Conflict` error.

 

## Roles, groups, and permissions

Because Workspaces allow users to control {{site.base_gateway}} entities in isolation, users must have the correct permissions to configure a particular Workspace. Users will require either a Super Admin or Admin role to configure Workspaces. 

The following table details which Workspace permissions each Admin role has:

| Permission | Super Admin | Admin |
|-----------|---------------|-------|

> | Manage entities within the specified Workspace |  ✅  |  ✅  |

Reviewer: can we use yaml syntax for this? I can cherry-pick https://github.com/Kong/developer.konghq.com/pull/199/commits/d558a4e4e1e19afe0ef8f19ca95fda49b4877183

Author: Yeah i'll do that.

schema:
    api: gateway/admin-ee
    path: /schemas/Workspace

faqs:
  - q: Do I have to enable Workspaces? 
    a: |

>       {{site.base_gateway}} ships with Workspaces, the default Workspace is named `default` and contains any global {{site.base_gateway}} configuration. 

Author: Its no, i reworded your answer.

  - q: Are there entities that can't exist in a Workspace?
    a: |
      Yes, some entities are global meaning they don't exist in any individual Workspace. For example `ca_certificates`.
  - q: Can I use Workspaces in Konnect?
    a: |
      Konnect offers access to the more power Consumer Groups [/gateway/entities/consumer-group/]

  - q: Can a Workspace share a name with another Workspace?
    a: |
      Individual Workspaces can be managed using [decK](/deck/). However, decK can't manage multiple Workspaces at the same time, or delete Workspaces.
  
---

## What is a Workspace?

Workspaces are a way of namespacing {{site.base_gateway}} entities so they can be managed independently. Workspaces maintain a unified routing table on the data plane to support client traffic segmentation.

The data plane routes client traffic based on the configuration applied across all Workspaces. Configuring entities related to routing such as Services and Routes alter the client traffic routing behavior of the data plane but {{site.base_gateway}} will always attempt to ensure that routing rules don't contain conflicts. 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Workspaces support multi-tenancy in that they isolate {{site.base_gateway}} configuration objects and when paired with RBAC,  {{site.base_gateway}} administrators can effectively create tenants within the control plane. The Workspace administrators have segregated and secure access to only their portion of the {{site.base_gateway}} configuration in Kong Manager, the Admin API, and the declarative configuration tool decK.

How you design your Workspaces is largely influenced by your specific requirements and the layout of your organization. You may choose to create Workspaces for teams, business units, environments, projects, or some other aspect of your system.

For more information, see [Multi-tenant architecture ](/gateway/multi-tenancy).
```

Moved multi-tenancy here since I think this applies more as a use case of Workspaces that's relevant in the intro instead of in it's own section.

{% mermaid %}
flowchart LR
    subgraph Workspace1 [Workspace-1]
        A(Team A's Service)
        B(Route)
    end 

    subgraph Workspace2 [Workspace-2]
        C(Team B's - Service)
        D(Route)

    end

    subgraph Workspace3 [Workspace-3]
        E(Team C's - Service)
        F(Route)
    end
    subgraph Gatewayorg [Gateway Organization]
    Workspace1
    Workspace2
    Workspace3
    end
 
{% endmermaid %}

## Schema

{% entity_schema %}

> ### Conflict detection algorithm

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How does {{site.base_gateway}} resolve entity conflicts between Workspaces?
```

Routing rules are configured at the data plane level. To ensure that traffic can be routed to the appropriate Workspace, {{site.base_gateway}} uses a conflict detection algorithm. The algorithm can be explained like this: 

When a Service or Route is **created** or **modified**, the {{site.base_gateway}} Router performs the following sequence to check for duplicate or matching rules: 

1. If no matches found: The operation proceeds.
2. If a match is found in the same Workspace: The operation proceeds
3. If a match is found in a different Workspace: 
  * If the matching Service or Route has no host value: issue a `409 Conflict` error
  * If the host is a wildcard:
        * if it matches issue a `409 Conflict` error
        * If it doesn't match, the operation proceeds.
  * If the host is an absolute value: Issue a `409 Conflict` error.

## Roles, groups, and permissions

> Workspaces allow users to control {{site.base_gateway}} entities in isolation. Individual permissions for Workspaces are configured using RBAC. Roles are sets of permissions that can be assigned to admins and users and can be specific to a Workspace. There are two types of Admin roles in {{site.base_gateway}}: **Super Admin** and **Admin**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because Workspaces allow users to control {{site.base_gateway}} entities in isolation, users must have the correct permissions to configure a particular Workspace. Users will require either a Super Admin or Admin role to configure Workspaces. 

The following table details which Workspace permissions each Admin role has:
```

> A super admin within the contexts of Workspaces can perform the following actions: 
> * Create new Workspaces
> * Assign and revoke roles to admins
> * Manage all Workspaces across the organization
> 
> An admin within the context of Workspaces can only manage entities within the specified Workspace. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Permission | Super Admin | Admin |
|-----------|---------------|-------|
| Manage entities within the specified Workspace |  ✅  |  ✅  |
| Create new Workspaces |  ✅  |  ❌  |
| Assign and revoke roles to admins |  ✅  |  ❌  |
| Manage all Workspaces across the organization |  ✅  |  ❌  | 
```
Sorry about the emoji, I couldn't get the correct check and x image formatting to work in my markdown table, so I don't know how to style it here ([see my comment on my Vaults' PR for context](https://github.com/Kong/developer.konghq.com/pull/199/files#r1907839039)).

> For more information see [Roles and permissions](/gateway/roles-and-permissions)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Roles and permissions](/gateway/roles-and-permissions).
```

> ## Multi-tenant Control Plane and Data Plane
> 
> Multi-tenancy is supported with Workspaces. Workspaces provide an isolation of {{site.base_gateway}} configuration objects while maintaining a unified routing table on the data plane to support client traffic. You can create Workspaces for teams, business units, environments, projects or other aspects of your system. 
> 
> When pairing Workspaces with RBAC, {{site.base_gateway}} administrators can effectively create tenants within the control plane. The {{site.base_gateway}} administrator creates Workspaces and assigns administrators to them. The Workspace administrators have segregated and secure access to only their portion of the {{site.base_gateway}} configuration in Kong Manager, the Admin API, and the declarative configuration tool decK.
> 
> 
> How you design your Workspaces is largely influenced by your specific requirements and the layout of your organization. You may choose to create Workspaces for teams, business units, environments, projects, or some other aspect of your system.
> 
> 
> For more information, view [Multi-tenant architecture ](/gateway/multi-tenancy)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Moved this to the intro paragraphs instead since it's a use case.

### Manage multiple Workspaces with decK 

The following decK flags must be used when interfacing with Workspaces using decK. 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

### Dump configuration into individual yaml files

```

```sh
deck gateway dump --all-workspaces
```

> This will dump your configuration into individual yaml files with the specific Workspace name including `default`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will dump your configuration into individual `yaml` files with the specific Workspace name, including `default`. 
```

> You can set a Workspace specifically within a decK file like this: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Set a specific Workspace in a decK file

```

```
_format_version: "3.0"
_workspace: default
services:
- name: example_service
```

> ### Deploying Workspace-specific config 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Deploy Workspace-specific config 
```

> Configurations deployed with decK must be deployed on a per-Workspace basis, individually. This is achieved using the `--workspace` flag: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
decK configurations must be deployed on a per-Workspace basis, individually. This is achieved using the `--workspace` flag: 
```

`deck gateway sync default.yaml --workspace default`

> ### Delete Workspace configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Delete a Workspace configuration
```

schema:
    api: gateway/admin-ee
    path: /schemas/Workspace

faqs:
  - q: Do I have to enable Workspaces? 
    a: |
     No, {{site.base_gateway}} Enterprise ships with the `default` Workspace, which contains any global {{site.base_gateway}} configuration. 
  - q: Are there entities that can't exist in a Workspace?
    a: |
      Yes, some entities are global meaning they don't exist in any individual Workspace. For example `ca_certificates`.
  - q: Can I use Workspaces in Konnect?
    a: |

>       No. Instead, {{site.konnect_short_name}} offers the more powerful Consumer Groups [/gateway/entities/consumer-group/] to organize and categorize of Consumers (users or applications) within an API ecosystem 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      No. Instead, {{site.konnect_short_name}} offers the more powerful [Consumer Groups](/gateway/entities/consumer-group/) to organize and categorize of Consumers (users or applications) within an API ecosystem 
```

To route traffic to the appropriate Workspace, {{site.base_gateway}} uses a conflict detection algorithm.

When a Service or Route is **created** or **modified**, the {{site.base_gateway}} Router checks for the existence of that object before allowing the operation to proceed in this order:

* If the Service or Route created is totally unique and does not match an existing entity, the new entity is created. 
* If an existing Service or Route object that matches the one being created is found, a `409 Conflict` error is returned. 
* If an equivalent Service or a Route is found in a different Workspace, the new entity is created.
* If an equivalent Service or Route is found in a different Workspace, and the host is a wildcard: 
  * If the host field matches in both workspaces, a `409 Conflict` error is returned.
  * If the host field does not match, the new entity can be created.

>   * If the host is an absolute value: Issue a `409 Conflict` error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * If the host is an absolute value, a `409 Conflict` error is returned.
```
